Do we have to choose
between directly learning
the policy parameters and
learning a value function?
No. Even within policy
gradient methods,
value-learning methods like TD
still have an important
role to play.
In this setup,
the parameterized policy
plays the role of an actor,
while the value function
plays the role of a critic,
evaluating the actions
selected by the actor.
These so-called
actor-critic methods,
were some of the earliest
TD-based methods
introduced in
reinforcement learning.
After watching this video,
you'll be able to describe
the actor-critic algorithm for
control with function approximation
for continuing tasks.
We finished off
the last video with
this expression for the policy
gradient learning rule.
But we don't have access to q Pi,
so we'll have to approximate it.
We can do the usual TD thing,
the one-step, bootstrap return.
That is, the differential reward
plus the value of the next state.
As usual, the parameterize
function V hat
is learned estimate of
the value function.
In this case, V hat is
the differential value function.
This is the critic part of
the actor-critic algorithm.
The critic provides
immediate feedback.
To train the critic,
we can use any state value
learning algorithm.
We will use the average
reward version
of semi-gradient TD.
The parameterized
policy is the actor.
It uses the policy gradient
updates shown here.
We could use this form
of the update,
but there is
one last thing we can
do to improve the algorithm.
We can subtract off what
is called a baseline.
Instead of using the one-step
value estimate alone,
we can subtract the value
estimate for the state,
S_t, to get the update
that looks like this.
V hat of S_t is
the baseline in this case.
Notice that this expression
is equal to the TD error.
The expected value of
this update is the same as
the previous one. Why is this?
Let's take the expectation of
the update condition
on a particular state
S at time t. Taking the
expectation of the sum,
is the same as the sum
of the expectations.
We can use this to separate
out the expectation of
our original term from
the expectation which involves
the subtracted value function.
It turns out the expectation
of the second term is zero.
So we can add this
baseline to the update
without changing the
expectation of the update.
You can verify this for yourself.
To start, write the
expectation as a sum of
reactions and pull
the V hat term out of the sum.
We'll leave this as an exercise.
So why do we add this baseline
if the update is the
same and expectation?
Subtracting this baseline
tends to reduce
the variance of the update which
results in faster learning.
This update makes
sense intuitively.
After we execute an action,
we use the TD error to
decide how good the action
was compared to the average
for that state.
If the TD error is positive,
then it means the selected action
resulted in a higher value
than expected.
Taking that action more often
should improve our policy.
That is exactly what
this update does.
It changes the policy parameters
to increase the probability of
actions that were better than
expected according to the critic.
Correspondingly, if the critic is
disappointed and
the TD error is negative,
then the probability of
the action is decreased.
The actor and the critic learn at
the same time,
constantly interacting.
The actor is continually changing
the policy to exceed
the critics expectation,
and the critic is
constantly updating
its value function to
evaluate the actors
changing policy.
With the policy update in place,
we're ready to go through
the full algorithm
for average reward actor-critic.
To start, we specify
the policy parameterization and
the value function
parameterization.
For example, we might use
towel coding to construct
the approximate value function
and a softmax policy
parameterization.
We will need to
maintain an estimate of
the average reward just like we
did in the differential
SARS algorithm.
We initialize this to zero.
We can initialize the weights and
the policy parameters
however we like.
We initialize
the step size parameters
for the value estimate,
the policy, and
the average reward,
and they could all be different.
We get the initial state from
the environment and then
begin acting and learning.
On each time step, we choose
the action according to
our policy and receive
the next state and reward
from the environment.
Using this information,
we compute
the differential TD error and
updating our running estimate
of the average reward.
We update the value function
weights using the TD update.
Finally, we update the
policy parameters using
our policy gradient
update. That's it.
This algorithms is designed
for continuing tasks.
So we can run it indefinitely
and continue to improve
the policy forever.
That's it for this video.
You should now understand
that is useful to learn
a value function to estimate
the gradient for the
policy parameters,
and the actor-critic algorithm
implements this idea with
a critic to learn
the value function for
the actor. Bye for now.